Notes for Advanced Programming COMSW3157.
Dumb Terminal: screen or a keyborad connected to a host machine.

Now: everything is connected together so it can be text based.

lubuntu

Working with the shell:
Kernel is the core of the operating system: Kernel exposes system calls that are functions that are program that executes in the Kernel.

Library routines can do system calls, and etc.

Shells will be making the system calls for us.
We will make a shell at the end of the semester which will make specific system calls.

Unix uses the file system hierarchical tree.
/(root) goes to different children that have their own children.

File paths:
/bin: essential user binaries (executables) that must be present when the system is on single user mode. (SUM: almost like a safemode)

/boot: the files related to system boot is contained here

/dev: developer files that is useful for people to sue

/home: contains all of the home directories of the users.

/mnt: all file systems that can bemountd.

/root: home directory of the user.

/tmp: Applications store temporary files in the /tmp directory.

/usr: contains all of the applications used by users.

Commands/instructions:
echo: command line utility we are running.
pwd: prints working directory.

ls: list directory contents
(Linux is case sensitive)

cd - : gets you to a previous folder

od: octal dump to show the contents of files in octal and other formats
od -c: will give you character by charactr content of all the contents

whereis ____ : looks for ____ and then prints the directory

whereis -b prints the directory

whereis -m prints the directory and the program

touch: creates a file

touch -d "date" "name": metadata of the file is given.

cp: copies a file

mv: moves a file
mv existing.file exisiting.file2 will remove all of the contents of the second file

more
less: shows you contents with detail or no detail

head: shows the top 10 lines
head -n(number): shows the top some number of lines

tail: shows the bottom 10 lines
tail -n(number): shows the bottom some number of lines

rm: removes a file

Two types of commands:
ones that are in the shell (shell built-in commands)
user commands

Shell built-in strings that bash shells knows how to interpret.

User commands: looks in the path, and tries to find the thing you are looking for and then runs it and then returns back to the prompt.

user bin will contain all of the user commands.

Shell variables: starts with "$"
env: shows all of the shell variables

.. for parent . for current - for previous

cntrl+r : searching the history of the commands



real time: how much time has elapsed for the user 
user time: time of program to run that did not go into the kernel.
sys time: time due to kernel instructions

Job control in bash

&: gives you a job to run in the background

job: shows what job is running.

fg: bring a program to the foreground
fg %1: brings the first running job into the foreground.
bg: bring a program to the background

ps: gives you all of the list of processes running in the machine.
ps -l: gives you all of the details of the processes

StandardIO

sort: a program that will sort the content of a text file
uniq: removes duplicates

man: shows man pages for instructions and commands within bash or C

sections 1 2 and 3 are what we need

binary calls printf to do some work.

File system and bash:
ls -l: shows you the number of blocks that have been used.
the first character for such command can be a d,-,l,c,b, or something.

first character within the permission string tells you the type
the rest tells you the permissions
Hard links: directories that are connected to a folder

- for any given character means that you do not have permission

different owners can see different things.
the right: everyone
the middle: group
the left: others

you can think of the permissions as binary bits.
if the binary is 1, the permission exists.

There can be 8 different ways to have a permission.

chmod: change permission within a file

chmod 744: will give a specific permission to a specific group.
chmod rwxrwxrwx

l: it is a link (first character of the permission string)

#!/bin/bash <- MUST BE THE FIRST LINE OF BASH SCRIPTS
shebang: #!

comments begin with an #

piping: standard out of the one process becomes the standard out of the next process.


