Notes:

Networking (not the people thing, but the computer thing):

What are somethings about networking?

int bind( int sockfd, const struct sockaddr *addr, socklen_t addrlen);
assigning a name to a socket

htonl: host to network (datatype: long)

let's say your computer has multiple IP addresses assigned to it, we need to listen to any, or all signals coming to it, we need to do htonl
Assigning an IP Address to the socket.

Need to be done on the server side.
We are telling the client to connect to the two entities, IP and the port on the server.

Port numbers are often greater than 1024.

Binding a socket:

Internet address: structk in_addr { uint32_t s_addr;};

Byte Ordering: ties in a lot of the stuff from earlier
Conversion from Little Endian -> Big endian

Little endian ("little end"). least significant byte is stored at the lowest memory address
With big-endian having the least significant byte stored at the highest memory address.

int a = 10;
[0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 1010]
Addr:
1003 1002 1001 1000

How to check little endian or big endian?

cast the int to a character, which only grabs the least significant bytes.
if it is equal to the intended value, it is little endian
if it is not, it is big endian.

Exam: questions related to endian-ness.

Bad integers to check: -1 or 0

When doing big to little endian conversion, ONLY change the order of the bytes, not the entirety of the bits.

int main(){
int x = 1;
char *cp = (char *) &x;
...


host is little endian in linux systems
hton -> host to network.
uint32_t (unsigned int 32 bits) (makes sure the system reads the parameter as a 32 bit)

listen()
int listen(int sockfd, int backlog)

Server cannot handle all the requests at once.
listen makrs the socket referred to by sockfd as a passive socket.

backlog is the maximum lenght of queue of pending connections

accept
it will wait for a connection request to come through.
You cannot send data to a server with a TCP.

Ephemeral: short lived. their port is short lived.

Client needs the port because they need to hear the connection back. (for endpoints)

Client doesn't always need to send:
You are writing an application and you send a welcoming message and may be that means that the clien t is waiting.

send() (same as write except send has flags)

recv() (Same as read, except is has flags)
blocking (Waits for data)

close (fd) //same as 

accept and recv are both blocking.
Accept gets the addr, but the read doesn't have any data received, the server does nothing.


