File I/O

getopt (In C):
int getopt(int argc, char* argv[], char *optstring);
1. what are the flags?
2. what are the optarg with each flag?

variables in the getpot library:

opterr = 0 disables getopt from printing errors to stderr. (does it by default)

optopt: ascii value of the character of the argument.

optind: index veriable that points to the next argument to processed, returns -1 when the getopt is succeeded and there arent any more arguments to parse.

optarg: the argument being processed (points to the first argument)

leading colon gives more flexibility to differentiate between missing optarg or an unknown flag.

C will do all of the flags first and then do the shifting for you.

getchar
the simplest way to read one character from standard in

putchar
put one character onto the screen on stdout.

EOF is a variable that is at the end of the stream

scanf reads characters, interprets them and stores them to remaining arguments. (ignores blanks and tabs).
it is often best to read in line at a time and then use scanf to pick it apart.

sscanf
reads a string instead of the stdin
blanks or tabs are not ignored
ordinary characters 
conversion specifiers...

line input
fgets(char *line, int maxline, FILE *fp)
reads the next input line including the newline. and reads at most maxline-1 characters.
it will return line on the end of file or it will return NULL if error.
IF you wanted to read 3 characters, you should have maxline as 5 so that it reads the newline character. (arg1,arg2,arg3,'\n','\0')
You can also override the newline character with the null terminator so that it ends faster.

File Pointers
Open, read, write, append, close.
File pointers are a wrapper that goes directly into a system kernel.

Open a file: *fopen(char *name, char *mode);
mode can be r, w, or a
read write or append
For some systems you can have binary files
rb wb or ab will be the read binary write binary or append binary files

int fclose(FILE *fp)

fclose flushes the output buffer (meaning it empties the output)

always pair your openings with closings.

Reading from or writing to a file

Single char: getc, putc (for files)
Multiple Byte file: fread(), fwrite()
File Position: fseek(), ftell(), etc.

Everything in Linux is a file (or a descriptor)

fread(void *p, size_t size, size_t n, FILE *file)
reads n objects, each size bytes long, from file to p.
returns the number of objects read.

Uses feof or ferror to determine the status for each case

fwrite(const void *p, size_t size, size_t n, FILE *file)
writes to a file from p, n amount each time, and size much.

fflush(FILE *stream)
flushes the output buffer.

stdout is line buffered (printf waits for \n)
stderr is unbuffered (output is displayed immediately)

Files are block buffered (contents being buffered will not appear until the internal buffer of a fixed size is filled up)

Block bufferring can be turned off with:
setbuf(FILE*,pointer)

command: watch -n1 -d ls -l file

strchr(array,character) (return a position that has the first time the character at the second argument is given)


