Notes


A process is an instance of a running program
a process ends when the main function returns.

exit functions:
return <status>; is equivalent to doing exit from anywhere in the program.
System calls: they tell the kernel to immediately close all files and terminate the process, free anything.
processes can have children, which are inherited by init or by the nearest subreaper process at exit.
terminating children, and zombies, and orphans are talked about in Computer science.

exit(int) is a C standard library function.
You can register exit handlers using the C function atexit(), from stdlib.h
exit(int) does the following:
calls the exit handler (in reverse order)
flushes and closes I/O streams
exits and closes the program

atexit(function): pushing my function to the top.
then it gets pulled at exit in LIFO fashion.

most of the time you want to use an exit handler globally.
no param, no return.

using like a global char** and freeing it is a good use for the exit handler.

exit handlers would also work with a file I/O, closing it.

the function exit, from stdlib.h will call of the exit handlers in the stack, and clean up the standard I/O.

sytem exits: _exit, _Exit will not be used in the course.

Command line and Environment Var
int main (int argc, char** argv, char **envp)
envp : HOME, PATH, SHELL, USER, ... , NULL.

export, envp in the command line will give you the contents of envp.

Process IDs
Shell: sleep 5 -> this runs a program called sleep for 5 seconds
shell does a fork, creates a copy of itself, and does an exec, which is to copy in over from the shell (the code), does an exec, finishes, brings you back to the prompt.

You will have to write a childshell, run a bash processes.

Process IDs
Every process has a Unique PID (non negative int)
PIDs are assigned by the kernel, the process ID continue to increment and goes back around when continually ran.

ps (shows all of the PIDs)
top (shows all of the process being run with CPU percentage)

ps -aux: shows all of the processes for all users, users/owners, not attached to the terminal.

pid_t getpid(void);
returns the process ID of the calling (current) process
pid_t getppid(void); gives you the parent of the pid

pid_t fork();
creates a child process
the child is a (not so true) copy of the parent.
It will bring in the value and modify the child
both the parent and the child resume execution in the instruction following fork();
A different value is returned in each case: 0 -> child, child PID -> to the parent process.
Child waits for no one, so return value is usually 0.

Properties inherited by the child:
LOTS of things.
All file descriptors that are open in the parent are duplicated in the child.

differences between parent and child
the return values from fork are different
PID
different parent process ID
the child's tms_utime, tms_stime, tms_cutime, and tms,
FIle locks set
Pending alarms are cleared for child
The set of pending signals for the child is the empty set.

File Descriptors:
parent process table entry: fd 0, fd 1, fd 2: fd flags and file pointer.
All we are doing is duplicating the fact that these pointers are pointing to the same thing.

fd_flags are modes of which some of the files are opened and how they might be opened.

fork().
pid = fork() < 0
if fork fails, it returns a negative number

if pid is 0, then I am in the child.
if it doesn't, then we are in the parent.

after fork, I make a copy of the entire code, now it has both the parent and the child running simultaneously.

fork will then output something first, might be the parent or the child.
it's either fork is deterministic or not.

Thread vs. Process:
Process:
Spawning a separate process that doesn't have the parent's address base of a process.

threads:
schedulable units of execution within a process.
All within the address base of a process.

is it deterministic? if not, write all of the possible outputs.
multiprocessing. sleep 1 would make it deterministic.

stdout is block buffered. So the buffer never gets flushed.
printf is line buffered, so it will flush every line.
setlinebuf(stdout), sets the stdout to line buffered.
Buffer is copied to the child as well.

Waiting:
have the parent always wait for the child
pid_t wait(int *wstatus);

wait will return the pid of the child that is terminated.
wait suspends the parent until the child terminates.
status gets updated after the child terminates,
returns the pid.

There are macros.

waitpid(pid_t,int *status, int options)

pid <-1 waits for any child process whose process gID is equal to the absolute value of pid

forkwithfile.c
Linux Signals

kill -> send a signal, -9 
kill -9 PID -> will kill a process with signal 9
kill -2 PID -> will kill a process with signal 2

Linux Signals will give the flags for kill.
